hey guys welcome to another episode of
the creative exchange I am here with my
friend Monica Church I need like a track
like a Wu track when I intro people I
mean I think I'm doing a good job with
it just yeah oh my god you're youtuber
you live in between Seattle and LA yes
and you have two YouTube channels so
yeah well you have three I have I don't
even know anymore oh my gosh so tell the
people about your different youtube okay
so I started YouTube when I was 13 years
old and now I'm 23 so I don't like to
admit it but it's been like ten years
and my main channel that I started with
is not really the person that I am today
so I have that but I created other
channels when I started to have other
interests so I'm like classic youtuber
that has a main channel and then a vlog
channel and my vlog channel is called
millennial life crisis and I started it
when I seriously was just at a point
where I'm like what am I doing with my
life I have no idea and I thought of
that name I thought it was catchy and
then I realized that it's also the
initials of my name so I was like I have
to make it I didn't know that yeah okay
that's cool yep so I wasn't even gonna
make it and then I was like I have to
now like I have to and that's the best
time to start vlogging channels when
you're actually going through things in
life a lot of people start vlogging just
for the heck of it and then they have
nothing to film so you're vlogging
channel is how I found you and I think
you were applying for a job but we'll
get to that later
Oh millennial life crisis yeah what's
your main channel hero dynamic so that
started it as like a whole beauty and
fashion thing
because it's such a big kind of sector
on YouTube and so when I started YouTube
I wasn't even that into beauty and
fashion but I just didn't know what to
make and I was like well I'm a girl what
are all the girl youtubers doing
I've got like a lip gloss I could do
this so I just I don't know I started to
do that but I I really just had way more
fun with actual just filming and editing
like I was like I don't really care
I'm making as long as I'm like
practicing this and now it's like I made
that for so long and I'm like wait where
did you start an iMovie yeah yeah
started it on actually no I started on
Windows Movie Maker I had I started on
my dad's old camera it was just like a
point and shoot and then Windows Movie
Maker a laptop that I like had saved up
for and then like I finally made enough
money or I could get an iMac or no it
was a MacBook and I could be cool and I
could have like the Apple music where
it's like dude don't do did you make
songs just from loops oh my gosh we had
that cool I wish I just used like the
music that comes in like final cut or
I'm yeah and I was so excited I was like
oh my god I can use these now I use like
the cheesy like because you've been
making videos on aerodynamics for the
past ten years yeah so I mean things
have slowed down but you you know you're
still doing like what I wear in a week
or things like that so yeah did things
shift over the past ten years I know
you're you're having you know another
vision your head for it now but what it
what has it been since up to this point
is it unboxing things like or like
back-to-school target stuff yeah yeah
right now I don't even know what it is
but um it definitely has evolved like
with YouTube like when I first started
it was okay to upload a video that was a
minute long being like this is my outfit
and then a couple years later it was
like no it needs to be like five minutes
and show like five outfits and they're a
little editing in that so I evolved to
like that kind of thing and then
mourning your teens became a thing and
like adding more editing and then people
had crazy graphics and like would do
certain fonts and I just kind of conform
to whatever anyone was doing I didn't
even have a brain for myself I was like
that's what that person's doing okay I'm
gonna do that too and it's like from
that I guess I learned techniques but oh
I'm not proud of those days but for
perspective it has that channel has a
million subscribers
which is I mean awesome Congrats but
people still are successful with it like
laurdiy is that her name oh yeah she's
really good it kind of like the morning
routine or like watercolor DIY art
projects and stuff but you kind of were
like okay I need to find my voice
outside of this right and not Millenial
life crisis started so how long have you
been doing your blogging channel I've
had that for like two years now okay
yeah so not too long you know it feels
like forever no and then what's your
third so I have a third channel that's
it's called flipping out and it's
gymnastics because I grew up doing
gymnastics and so I knew I always wanted
to make something about that I remember
when I was a gymnast it was my entire
life it's like what I would search on
YouTube and I was like I want to make a
destination where gymnast can go and
watch gymnastics content because I'm
into becoming more of a director and a
producer and so I thought okay I want to
make a channel that's like kind of for
younger kids it's like fun playful stuff
that they can watch about gymnastics so
I've had that one for just over a year
now and it's super fun - how's it doing
it's good I mean it's honestly not what
I expected it to be in my head which is
kind of a letdown but I feel like that's
with literally every creative project
you ever do it's always just trying to
get to what your vision is in your head
and like never attaining that but
getting close right but it's good it's
it's a lot more I mean you've got an
audience quick though with that channel
so yeah obviously met a need yeah yeah
totally so it's good it's successful I'm
happy with it but I wanted it to be like
a higher level gymnast kind of edge your
cool stuff so I'm hopefully soon gonna
put up another channel so that there's
like the younger kids that are in the
younger levels just learning which is
cool but then the higher-level ones that
are super serious about it that are
trying to go to college for it that it's
like there
that kind of stuff - that's cool yes I
bet there's an audience for both because
I've got a lot of younger kids and
gymnastics want to see oh that person is
the same age as me that's something to
aspire to but then I feel like in
general it's so cool to see these super
successful I don't know whenever you're
seeing the journey of trying to get into
college or even the above that trying to
go to the Olympics for it it's so cool
to see people's journey period whether
you're an athlete or you know a
filmmaker or something because yeah when
I watched one of the flipping out videos
like this is so cool because those
people just living out their passions
yeah which is cool regardless but yeah
so are you going to do you have plans to
start like another channel then or is it
gonna be on that same channel it would
be another chance okay yeah so the plan
is flipping out and flipping up puffing
ups like the higher level one day yeah
yeah so I mean I've done a lot of work
for it so far like film videos know the
perfect gyms for it and everything it's
just a matter of I don't know finding
the right time because like tacking on
another channel - what I do when I'm not
even consistent on all of them as it is
it's just I don't know right I don't
know I need like to hire help but then
that's a whole other issue where it's
like have you hired people for like
editors or Filner's I shower but it's
your experience with that it's good but
it's it's like a different skill that I
didn't realize trying to communicate
what you want I don't know I don't know
I I realized like I don't want to be a
boss I don't want to be the boss of
people I just want to make what I make
mm-hmm I don't know no that's hard when
you have that creative bone and then you
know you need that help whether it's
with editing or filming but then other
part of it you I just want to do
everything you know but once you get to
that next level it's hard because you do
need help what would be your dream to
have like a gymnastic show on TV or to
just have maybe like I don't know a
different channel like license out the
show like what would that dream be for
you I think right now
more of like short-term dreams would be
yeah like more of a show a gymnastic
show a scripted one would be really cool
interesting yeah like I mean I have
ideas for that kind of thing it's just
really hard to pull off and I always
like have an idea and I know how I want
to look and everything but I can't get
past the writing phase like I don't want
to be the writer of it but then I don't
know writers do you have experience with
scripted content cuz that's something I
know because I'm more of like the
documentary style stuff and I know
you're really good at that and that's
something that I for sure know I do not
like because I hate writing and I don't
like making scripted stuff the moment
someone is like okay the camera has to
be here and the person's gonna say this
same thing and it's like the same thing
over and over that's intimidating
totally not fun you know I love just
like capturing random stuff sure there
could be some structure but then really
making the story in the Edit is what I'm
like obsessed with so what it what is it
about scripted content that you find
intriguing or fun I agree with you on
all the documentary stuff too like I
enjoy the process of that so much more I
only would have want to make scripted
things when there's a few stories that I
just really want to tell about my life
or someone else's life that I think
would just be done better as a scripted
thing with actors because it's something
that already happened right
yes it's and like for me growing up one
of my favorite movies was stick it like
a gymnastic I was like there needs to be
like another thing like that and so I'm
like I should make that but in general
like yeah I know like I hate being on
sets like it's uh yeah not a fan of that
have you had experience being an actor
in something because usually when you're
on YouTube for a while you've been doing
this for 10 years it's crazy that you're
my age 23 and you've been doing this for
10 years yeah once you have an audience
you do and you live in LA part time you
do get those opportunities and everyone
around you seems like they want to be an
actor sometimes totally so do you have
experience with that I'm
I very early on was like no I don't want
to do that like no and obviously it was
funny because people would be like like
managers or agents or whatever you know
that I think they're so used to trying
to like pitch like I'll do this for you
I'll do this for you and they're like
I'll get you acting jobs and I was like
I don't want to act and they're like oh
my god thank you yeah there were a few
times like I was sent scripts and I was
just like I don't want to do this I just
know I don't want to sometimes you can
get in that mine with Wow that'd be
really cool to be a movie star maybe I
could do that and then I'm like wait no
I could not the way I see it I don't
even care to be like on YouTube that
much there are a lot of times where I
like don't even want to be on camera but
I've just accepted the fact that it's my
life now but I'll think of an idea even
like for my main channel and be like I
should just hire an actress cuz she
would do a better job than me I just did
like let's be real there's someone out
there that would do a better job than me
but don't you think that's what makes
people attracted to your channel and
stuff is like your personality and you
keep it real and I think that's
something through your vlogging channel
you've probably had more success at
because on your main channel you have to
keep a certain I feel like just level of
standards when it comes to your fancy
videos that's what I've found when it
comes to like a documentary series I'm
like oh I can't show like my real person
or what I'm going through
yeah how has showing the real you I mean
do you feel like you've shown the real
you through your vlogging channel like
oh yeah how is that shift because I hear
you're used to before like turn on the
camera for 10 minutes or 20 minutes
record some kind of just like maybe some
parts are scripted but when it comes to
vlogging it's literally just like
whatever it comes to you yeah it's crazy
when I think about it I never thought I
would like shared this much of my life
but it slowly just kind of happened
because like at first it started with
the whole job interview thing and that's
not that personal right it's like cool
that it's a challenger to struggle but
it's not
but so many people can relate to it yeah
and I think that's why so many people
are attracted to it because that's
honestly how I think you popped up on my
feet was you were going through the job
thing but then you are also moving and I
feel like you're always moving to
Seattle moving to LA new house here and
you know I wasn't watching oh wait where
does she live so let's hurt with the
moving thing so are you originally from
Seattle your family's there yeah okay so
you've been doing a lot of back and
forth yeah basically start out I grew up
in a town like 45 minutes south of
Seattle never thought Seattle was cool
growing up was like I need to get out of
here California is so cool so moved at
18 to like Orange County area lived
there for a year then moved to LA was
there for three years and slowly started
to hate it but like didn't want to admit
it and so I'd be like why am i unhappy
what the heck and then I go back to
Seattle and just love it and all your
family's there right yeah and like
really good friends I mean friends in LA
- but I find it was like oh my gosh like
I want to live in Seattle and I didn't
even tell anyone for probably like six
months of me knowing like I was afraid
to admit it and all that stuff because I
don't know it's hard when your industry
is in a place like LA you almost feel
guilty that you need to be here and it's
almost like you kind of have to when it
comes to collaborations and so you live
in both places now yeah
so I mean is that I'm sure that's a
better balance for best people I love it
it's amazing it's kind of ridiculous but
it's amazing so yeah so I have I'm not
like super rich or something you guys
also it's just like I have roommates in
both places in like very small it's like
quantity over quality like both places
are kind of like dumbed down pretty
simple just a room with roommates so I
can make it happen but I really like it
that way that's cool yeah what's some
advice
to people that want to make that move
happen a lot of people probably want to
move to LA or New York because that's
where their industries are but sometimes
I think people are hesitant because they
can't have what in their image is the
perfect image the perfect apartment and
so what some advice that you would give
to people it's just like just do it I
think the biggest advice I'd give to
someone that's wanting to move is I mean
obviously it's gonna be kind of scary
and aside from like housing I think the
most important part is finding friends
right so my advice would be to you know
if you're the same age as me like move
in with other people in like a housing
like near college if you're that age or
with other people near where you work
make friends with your co-workers like
make a good effort to make friends with
people and I think anywhere you live
you'll actually end up loving it but I
mean you really just kind of do it you
did it at such a young age
yeah because you can always tell
yourself like it's temporary you could
just do it for a little bit about time
when to do it when you're 18 20 like mid
20s late 20s live with four people live
with five people yeah get a decent spot
but you're in LA you're in New York
you're in your dream city and once you
realize that and when it comes to New
York apartments a little bit more
complicated
oh so many hoops you have to jump
through but during that time your life
it's like just do it
I think it truly does matter where you
are for like one yes your happiness but
too for work especially in the creative
industry I've lived in Dallas Texas for
or a suburb of Dallas Texas for the
first 20 years of my life and when I was
like okay it's a nice bubble to grow up
in but when I wanted to take that next
step it's like this is not where I need
to be you know the people aren't here so
I moved to Nashville and I eventually
end up in New York and luckily I Love
New York lifestyle I love the subway I
love like riding bike or like an
electric skateboard anywhere but also
creative people are always there so it's
the best of both worlds but for your
case it's cool that it's like you have
LA for work Seattle for the fam and
friends and stuff yeah that's that's fun
so the job what was the job and why are
you applying for a job when you worry oh
you're a famous youtuber yeah scribal
scribal subscribe millions I want a
million subscribe yeah why a job when
you have such a massive YouTube channel
well I didn't like the videos that I was
making at all it was before I started my
blog Channel and I was just like
thinking about the future and I was like
I can't keep going on like this and I've
never I've never had a job in my life
other than YouTube I've never worked for
someone which is kind of crazy and like
when I tell people that they are like
must be nice and I'm like weird I got
really lucky yellow admit it totally but
there was hard work there too but and
there's certain things that you have to
deal with that and that you don't have
to deal with a 9-5 everything stays on
you all the responsibility falls on you
and especially when you are a 13 14 year
olds and 18 19 year old and you're
dealing with those pressures that can be
a lot yeah and I think that was sort of
the thing I was like I've never had a
nine-to-five job what if I really like
that
I'm sick of always having to like fix my
own problems like oh if I'm not getting
views I can't go to someone what do I do
like I definitely think that on YouTube
but yeah so I was like I just want to
get like a real job and see if I like
that and it was in video production and
it was just an internship with the
Seattle Mariners I love baseball I was
like I love video and I love baseball
why don't know I mix the two yeah
and I remember it just everything about
it like felt so right I had applied so I
was unhappy living in LA but I had never
really admitted that I wanted to move to
Seattle so I thought of every excuse
kind of to move to Seattle
like low-key I guess and so I remember I
had looked up internships before but not
in a long time and one day I was just
really annoyed I think at my sister and
I just didn't want to be in California
and I looked I was like I'm just gonna
search Mariners like job opportunities
and I saw the internship and I think the
day was like February 18th or something
and it was like 3 p.m. and it said like
February 18th is like the last day to
submit an application at like 4 p.m. so
I had like an hour and I texted my best
friend I was like should I apply like oh
my gosh should I do it she was like yeah
just do it yeah and so I did you got
your camera documenting the entire
process and I know that was before so so
I did and then I was super excited and
then I just forgot about it and then a
month later I got a phone call from a
random number that was from the Mariners
and was like hey or no it was an email I
think it was like we want to have a
phone call with you and an interview and
I was like I completely forgot about
this oh my gosh so I had the phone call
and then it set up an interview and I
was so excited about the whole process
because I turn it had a job yeah so I
was like this is crazy like oh I've
never done this and so I pulled out my
camera when I was getting on my flight
to go to Seattle for the interview and I
remember being so nervous for it I
remember my dad driving me there and I
was like dad stop like I can drive
myself here's actually he was actually
kind of annoying that he literally
walked in to the office with me I was
like dad you
they're gonna think I can't like just
work on my Oh like because he loves the
Mariners to go inside I had the
interview and I mean it went really well
but not perfect obviously but I thought
I was like a shoo-in right and so I like
hyped it up you know days would go by be
like hopefully I'm gonna hear from them
and then I didn't hear from them and
then I just wasn't expecting that I
started vlogging because I thought that
I was going to get that job I thought I
was gonna have all this exciting time of
moving to Seattle right and then I was
like oh I didn't what now
did they just never get back to you they
did like after the baseball season had
started and I'm like we'll die and get
the job thanks a lot no jokes on them
because now you have millennial like
crisis yeah like it's flourishing
yeah thanks yeah everything's supposed
to happen no I hate that saying but like
I think it's true it's funny I think six
months ago or something I was in Santa
Barbara for a vacation whatever vacation
means I tried it was good but we got
some good content so they made it fun
and I kind of had a freakout cuz that
YouTube is so up and down and one week
you could be on the top of the world the
other week you're like wow my views are
half what I got last week you're like
what is your happiness kind of goes back
to your work and if you're not doing
well you're like just in a bad mood no
matter what and it's not your fault
because you tell you when you're when
you're a youtuber YouTube really is your
entire life so when all of that is
wrapped up into thousands of people
watching you if half of those people
have a busy day and decide not to click
on your video then you feel that ya feel
that way yeah
there's there's so much of a pole in
between quantity and quality and you're
someone who I feel like we can relate to
each other because we've had things on
YouTube to do really well but then we
also have this passion to do something
more and to create that stuff that maybe
for the majority we're behind the camera
and now that we have something on
YouTube that's kind of scary to do right
because people are there for your
personality and they're there for other
things but they like you they like
Monica they like Sarah and so sometimes
it's scarier to do that stuff and six
months ago in Santa Barbara I was like
in an Airbnb restroom like on the phone
with my mom like crying and like I don't
want to I don't want all of the
responsibility to be on me like I was
legit thinking of going to do a
full-time job with like this New York
City startup and I was like oh that's
fun I love the business world and I love
connecting to creators but that pressure
can be a lot sometimes and so I would
gently was sent out to like go have a
full-time job like a nine-to-five at a
startup and I don't think I've actually
ever told anyone this but just something
happened that next week when I was like
about to do it and I was like I'm so
obsessed with the process and the climb
and I think sometimes I have to
recognize that um that that is fun for
me but sometimes it gets so much I was
like if I was at the mercy of someone
else that I would be so much more
miserable you know yeah because I loved
being my own boss but I can just get so
much sometimes and you know there's
those moments where it would be nice to
just work for someone you know it's
sewing clock out and clock out and then
go watching Netflix for four hours it
smell a little guilty about like not
exactly but then you kind of have to
reevaluate and be like oh wait is that
me is that truly me yeah and so that's
yeah I kind of had a moment and then I
came back to okay everyone has ups and
downs it's just sometimes maybe our
downs are more intense just because it's
all on you yeah and you have the
pressure of other people in the comment
section
all that but it can be it can be a
strong one I think for any creative
person whether you know you're doing
YouTube you're just like a DP on a film
or maybe you're just getting you know
starting out with things so do you fill
in a way that right now you're kind of
at a point where you feel like starting
again like do you have certain things
that you want to do with your first
channel and with companies you know
maybe you want to like become almost
like maybe more of a production company
yeah and be that role behind the camera
so what are what's going through your
head now well I just turned 23 whoo whoo
whoo and just a few weeks ago and I
don't know to me it sounds everyday
obviously it's not oh thanks but it made
me think really hard about everything
that I've been doing and am I on track
to be doing what I want to be doing and
I don't think that I am and so I have
been thinking about like all the things
that I want to do and it's like a little
bit scary but yeah my main channel that
I had for so long honestly the way that
I look at it is I was taking the easy
way out I was like making these videos
that I knew would do well that I didn't
really care about and it was the easy
way out to me and I'm no longer going to
take that I'm gonna make videos that I
really care about but maybe they take a
lot more time and take more production
and people involved and is about a topic
that's hard to talk about I don't know
so I mean I'm thinking about a lot of
things of growing that channel up and
trying to keep going into the role of
being more of a producer and a director
and yeah trying to make higher quality
things which means you come up with an
idea and then yeah you got to hire like
a DP just a bunch of people that I can't
think of right now I don't know you know
rapper well yeah there's a light or a
grip
there's so many kind of scary to think
of like a big set day where if you spend
a whole bunch of money on it there's
that's so much pressure and it's
different and it's a new adventure yeah
I think a good example we were talking
about her earlier is Anna Akana so she
is a youtuber who crushes it but she has
these bigger projects that are literally
films and she hires out so many people
to help her and I'm sure right before
that it was so scary but it almost seems
she's so natural at it now young but
yeah do you have let's get a little
geeky with like filmmaking and stuff cuz
I was watching a video recently and I
didn't know you went to film school did
you huh did you finish film school no
okay how long were you there I was there
for about a year and a half I think
maybe he's two years I went to Orange
Coast College and I loved it and like I
have them to thank for the person that I
am today I think I still think about
like my first class like my first
editing class and my first like filming
class and I think the biggest thing that
I learned was not even about like the
filmmaking technical side but about just
dreaming big and they would be really
inspiring it was really cool I don't
know and I mean they would say like you
don't need to get a degree to do film
like they would always kind of preach
that so I was like okay yeah fine I'm
not going to like why are you even here
anymore and I was like okay final week
with that what do you think is the
purpose of film school I mean I think
you do learn things that you should know
you should know composition of a shot
you should know how a set runs and the
jobs that are done and maybe a bit on
how to do those jobs you don't need to
be an expert if you don't want to be a
gaffer but you need to know kind of what
they do and you learn more about story
and you interact with other people you
learn to communicate better I do think
that's all important so you learn all
these technical things but then you
realize like rules are meant to be
broken and that's
okay but you have to know the rules yeah
yeah you gotta know the rules though
otherwise that you're just super amateur
you gotta know the rules to be able to
break them for sure that's that's it
yeah so the idea of college I think
still people struggle with because they
see so many successful people out there
without college degrees but then they
don't know the whole story because I
truly believe I was in you know I was in
college for three and a half years I
hated it but I truly believed that there
were aspects of my time being a computer
science major that actually helped me in
the long run like you learn
problem-solving and even though you're
trying to make a pyramid of Asterix and
C++ the problem solving that you learned
through that actually helps you to like
critically think and I had this moment
when I was in premiere and I was trying
to figure out how to do some like fancy
thing and editing with like keyframes or
something
and I thought of a way to do it that was
just like so weird but I was like oh
this is because I feel like I'm learning
how to think differently I don't know
guys like everything truly does have a
reason but in terms of traditional
college if you are a creator or maybe a
you know you want to be an entrepreneur
you have a business idea what's your
opinion on college all that things
because obviously with film school you
went for a year and a half you got what
you needed and then you left you don't
have a degree from it but you did find
some value within that year yeah so for
those people who are maybe younger
they're in high school they're stressing
out about college what some advice you
have to aspiring creators I think that
if you're a creative person like college
isn't for everyone but there is that
important aspect of like you meet people
there that could end up being people you
work with for the rest of your life on
creative things too that's a huge part
of it I think people think oh if I get
into like this big University like I
Steven Spielberg is gonna let me be his
assistant right
and it's like no that's not what people
mean by you meet people it's like you
meet other talented students of your age
and your capability
but you guys are all going to grow
together you're not just gonna get
hand-selected because you have that
fancy certificate ya know it's like it's
cool it's really cool to be just
surrounded by all those people and
people take that for granted because
you're just not gonna get that anywhere
else really unless you go some other one
off class but I think that's valuable
when you don't already have that I think
people who maybe in high school they're
in maybe like a club or something
outside of school or like for me it was
my church it was like a big mega church
but it's super creative so I was able to
kind of go alongside people because
how'd you do that and that so and I just
kind of offered my time so it really
like expedited that but kind of created
this network of people and so I think
for college if you have no idea what you
want to do and you don't have that
network already I think it could be a
really good place to find that but you
don't go and do that for like 60 ka
I think that I'm like no way when you
graduate college you're literally like
starting your adult life and you don't
want to start your adult life $200,000
in debt I don't think it's just crazy
you realize that like loans aren't free
money and then you're paying like insane
interest and you're trying to get that
apartment in New York City you're trying
to live your dreams in LA but you have a
$900 college payment that you have to
pay that complicates the process you
know so yes you gotta find that middle
ground you gotta have common sense and
then if you have that network outside of
school screw it I'm like a huge advocate
of like you don't need college
especially if a filmmaker photographer
designer even a business person go
freakin to Barnes & Noble go on the
internet and read you know yeah I think
the biggest thing is to just never stop
learning in general exactly because
people have mentality of I'm in college
I read my books and I'm done but you
never stop mm-hmm I think the worst
thing I ever did for myself was I think
there was a point in time where like
when I was in film school like the
teachers were kind of hype me up and be
like you're really good like you're one
of like the better
the clouds kind of thing and so then I
would just like be kind of a hothead
about it and be like yeah like I don't
need to I know everything there is to
know and I look back and I'm like oh my
god like I didn't know anything and I
just really stopped myself for a while
from growing because I just thought that
I learned what I needed to but you know
yeah her stop learning and sometimes
that ego can get in the way yep
and that's maybe that's something good
about the chaos that is YouTube is it
keeps you humble
oh you don't get truly just keep you
humble because you can be a rock star in
one moment and then post a video that
doesn't have a decent title and
thumbnail and you're like back to square
one totally so what do you what's going
on with YouTube right now have you been
a facility have you been affected by the
ad pocalypse or D monetization or are
your views because for a little bit of
context for people who are who are
unaware of the YouTube landscape it is
up and down all the time
they're always changing the algorithm
when people subscribe that really means
nothing now they're not going to get
notified of your video just you cross
your fingers and hope that you're gonna
land on the homepage the recommended
feed because that's how people click on
your videos now so once you start
feeding the algorithm maybe you will
have some hope but that means Logan Paul
is in the title of your video maybe
maybe you're doing a trend of like I'm
eating gross jelly beans because
everyone's doing that you know that was
like two years ago yeah so it's a weird
landscape we're all trying to kind of
like figure out what is our new voice
what should we be doing what what has
been going through your brains how are
you handling it I mean I wasn't handling
it well but I just it's been going on
for I think a good two years of being
frustrated by it that I just stopped
caring I'm like this is your the
perspective of being on this platform
for 10 years
yeah so what was it like the first five
years and versus now the first five
years is just so much easier there's
less people on it trying to like
do this and I don't know I didn't I I
don't even know I mean like if there if
there wasn't like BuzzFeed with like the
clickbait like that wasn't a thing you
were just like throw up a video and not
even really think about the title and
thumbnail that much and now it's like
the title and thumbnail is more
important than the whole video and
people are doing the most crazy things
for views and it just made the site
trashy I think I'm not proud to be on it
a lot of the time because they did it to
themselves like they made it trashy I'm
like wow I wish I don't think YouTube's
the right platform for the stuff that I
want to make but it's the only one
exactly because it sucks to come to that
realization because maybe there's things
and the headlines recently that you know
Logan Paul goes into a suicide forest
films a dead person youtuber live and
Paul that's what the headline says I
thought it was so much for that so
immediately like oh I'm a youtuber -
yeah that's what I'm associated with and
people think oh my god what is this
platform what is doing like oh my god
you're a youtuber is that the type of
stuff that you make and so when your job
is to constantly just make sensational
content and that's where you end up like
filming really like stuff that should
not be on the Internet it hurts the
entire platform but like what are you
gonna post your videos on Vimeo the
people are on YouTube I think that's
been a something that I've been hearing
from a lot of people in the community is
I do not like the platform I'm creating
on but it's my only option yeah it's
exactly just took the words out of my
mouth it's read my mind that's pretty
good so I'm always you know but yeah I
mean what do you think is the solution
to finding satisfaction as a creator on
YouTube already or do you think yes
like I just stopped caring I was like
I'm just gonna make what I want to make
and I'll kind of try to do titles and
thumbnails but I don't care I'm just
gonna throw up what I want to throw up
and I'm not gonna I don't know I don't
know yeah you have to not care to a
certain degree especially when a lot of
your job depends on getting feedback
from people you don't know yeah and you
really have to balance that line of
reading the comments but also not
getting too upset where you just want to
run away to the mountains and just like
never open up a computer again yeah yeah
sometimes it'll just not get to you if
it's something so completely ridiculous
but sometimes if you did something like
really personal and maybe there's a
little bit of truth behind a negative
comment really those they're not runners
you know the ones that are super intense
and crazy that's just a comment on that
person you're crazy I'm gonna hide you
from my channel yeah but when I post it
so I posted a video recently I've been
using the gh fives recently for my
podcast so I was like I'm gonna try
logging with them now autofocus is
terrible and so as I'm gonna use this
camera to the first two minutes of the
video is pretty out of focus hmm and it
was a bummer but I'm like this is a
video I've already filmed and edited I
just gotta put it out there but there
were so many comments about it and it's
like something that obviously going into
it I knew about and I'm super insecure
but it's those comments that were you
know you did something wrong or you can
approve and it's like Oh Sarah I'm so
disappointed
yeah like oh you have just gotten lazy
lately like you're not how you used to
be you've changed those sorts of things
are what get under your skin and you're
like you know isn't your best and they
go like your videos have gone downhill
lately I'm like yes call me ugly I don't
care that subjective but I say
something's gotten like worse and I know
it that's and I'm like exactly yeah
there's so much crap to say on YouTube
but I will say just to end the YouTube
conversation on a positive note it is
what has allowed me to meet incredible
people like you I feel like I've had a
really cool network of people you know
be created from just people who have
common goals of making dope stuff and
like trying to take over the world and
it's cool to see people come out of this
and really say like I want to do better
I want this platform to be better and I
think a lot of people are trying to
collectively make that happen so we'll
see but it led to some of the coolest
relationships that I've had and amazing
opportunities I think through this ad
pocalypse stage you know it's kind of
proved that you can't depend on money
from Google of putting pre-roll ads so I
think both of us have had really cool
opportunities to work with brands that
allow you to actually go to places and
do things that you wouldn't be able to
do originally you know I've been able to
be an interviewer on like a red carpet
with like famous actor people like I got
to interview friggin Neil Patrick Harris
I like me you recently got to go to Utah
do some Olympic stuff with coke and you
got to interview some what's your name's
Simone biles yeah she's like this best
gymnast there ever has been I mean how
is that yeah it was so cool it was so
cool I mean I'm a it's funny like
growing up Olympic gymnast or like your
heroes but now it's to the point where
I'm like oh
Simone's like younger than me
is she really
I'm like I don't really I think she's
amazing and talented but I'm not like
starstruck to meet her it's like oh this
is so cool I get to talk to her but it's
not the same I get is like oh now I just
feel like I'm equal like we're just
humans maybe some people don't agree
they're like but she's an Olympian I'm
like yeah we're all just people we're
all just people I don't care who is that
one person that you would get super
starstruck by Jimmy Kimmel I loved you
making life so much I love Jimmy Kimmel
that is so random he's amazing he's so
funny
but like not too much at the expense of
another person but a little bit weird
but like a good meet and he's a really
good person he just actually seemed kind
hearted I went I've been there like in
the audience of his live shows and like
could he came out I uh I think there's a
deer mouse no I
yeah you could just die there Ellen da
she came all no Jimmy Jimmy Kimmel I
know you're a big fan of watching the
creative exchange so let's get Monica on
your show yeah that's somebody yeah hide
yourself I would love to meet him oh my
gosh yeah I know I wouldn't think I
think mine would be Jennifer Lawrence
because I think she's just like so
badass yeah I'm like so cool and she's
she's one of the people that in the back
of my mind I wouldn't be like oh I got
to be cool because I want her like on
the podcast or I want around a video
she's just like such a superstar and
then I'd be like this is the only time
that I'm seeing you so I'm gonna freak
out take a picture I don't I think she's
so cool she's the freaking Mockingjay
yeah you why joggers don't ya I made a
go to us about it back in the day
they're embarrassing what were the
videos that make about like tutorials
makeup tutorials to look like them and
there's did you do the braid they're
like Mockingjay braid nice didn't my
hair was
long enough but I did like the one where
is like the lady with the pink hair and
stuff honestly I'm gonna go private that
this right off you know I think everyone
has videos like that on their YouTube
channel then my let's see second or
third video ever that has like 70,000
views and this is probably gonna be the
last time I ever talk about it because I
feel like I've been talking about a lot
recently and I don't want people to
watch it was a music rap video of me and
my friends rapping about the law of
supply and demand and one of my friends
had a Nicki Minaj like Halloween costume
that she were wore in it and we you know
we changed all the words to very
educational
economics terms and things and that was
kind of the start of my youtube career
to be honest but it's so I'm like I
should probably unlist that right but it
would probably punish you in some way
right things that like I like to keep
that stuff just if people want to look
didn't see where we come from yeah it's
like I mean that was me at once and
every once in awkward teen at some point
even okay you think they're not okay I
saw a video of Kendall and Kylie Jenner
doing like a music video and it was
honestly was a terribly hilariously
embarrassing I bet for them and I was
like okay it's good to know what they
went through that phase two because I
feel like our generation totally went
through the phase where you have a sleep
over one night and you're like let's
make like a lip-sync music video and
it's the most fun thing ever ever and
you have everyone has their experience
with photobooth and when you're young
that's the coolest thing ever so if you
go over to a friend's house and they
have a Mac and they have that
front-facing camera and you can like be
swimming in the fishes or a roller
coaster oh yeah all that if you don't
probably don't even know what we're
talking about but photo booth was a app
on a Mac computer where you could you
could like make the background a green
screen basically and like do these crazy
effects so we would do that all it yeah
all of the time I love
did you ever do that alone
and make music videos alone and like
speed up your voice I remember read it
and friend in it okay do you oh man so
I'm just the loser but for the Fred
videos
yes where he would like speed up his
voice yeah I was very inspired by that
so I I would sit in front of my Mac and
I would play like a screamo song or
something these are videos that no one
will ever see ever but I had a phase in
middle school where I listened to like
screamo stuff and I would record myself
singing it and I would do it you know in
slow so basically at the trick if you're
wondering is if you want to film a music
video and film the people in slow motion
or let make the words that they're
singing look like they're doing it in
slow motion I'm sure you've done this
before you basically speed up the song
twice as fast and you have the person
singing sing it twice as fast so in post
when you slow it down 50% their lips are
gonna be in slow motion but they're
actually gonna be singing to the correct
view this song you know what I'm saying
does that make any sense at all I never
did that
okay so I would do that to myself with
like these screaming throws I know so oh
my gosh it was so bad it was so so bad
so funny I know
do you have but let's go back to that
topic of not going through awkward
phases because I truly believe you know
the use of America now have you to teach
them how to put makeup on hmm I didn't
have that I didn't know in seventh and
eighth grade all I did was put I had
liquid liner and I would just put like
really bold lines of like liquid liner
on the top and bottom it was terrible
that's so I had no one to teach me
lassic first learning how to use yeah I
didn't I didn't know to go to youtube
did you have those moments or because
you were that beauty vlogger oh no I had
the moments I started out like the most
awkward just awful like even like the
first two years of it I
still wasn't totally with it even today
I'm not totally with it looks like
freakin Kylie and Kendall Jenner through
two DUIs I'm like I don't like the
vanity involved in that like why do you
need to like take so many photos of
yourself who cares yeah I don't know
do you watch have you ever watched the
Kardashians yeah I have what do you
think of the Kardashians I just get
bored of it I mean I don't really I've
seen them before I actually almost
gotten an elevator one time with Khloe
and Kourtney No
yeah it was a weird day so I was a
security guards be like excuse me
Anthony security guards no it was so
weird I didn't even know so I just
remember seeing like these girls kind of
I didn't look at their faces I just
thought they were so dressed up I'm like
geez who are they right and like kind of
like a teal dress and like a coral dress
and they were getting in the elevator
and me and Shelby were about to get in
the elevator and we're like oh let's go
and then something in me was like
actually let's wait a second so we
didn't get in the elevator so those
girls went up and whatever didn't think
about it but then I had my meeting for
what I was doing that day and then I
went to a restaurant later and saw the
same girls in those dresses I was like
those are the girls from the elevator
and I look at their faces and it's
Kourtney and Khloe Kardashian oh my god
I almost got an elevator with them I
didn't even realize it was them your
life could have been changed you just
trying that elevator right and I wonder
what the smell like oh they probably
smell good yeah they probably smell like
flower balm or something yeah yeah yeah
but um it was pretty funny and they were
like filming the Kardashians Kim showed
up it was like a little baby North at
the time all these things it was that
toast bakery can't have you been there
okay no I haven't if you guys wanna be
hip and happening you heard it here
first
totes for the Kardashians go it's I
watched one season of the Kardashians
and the entire time I was just rolling
my eyes but it was entertained
there was a reason why I was watching it
yeah and it's it's weird when it's a
reality show but then you know so much
of it is scripted mm-hmm and then you
kind of parallel that with YouTube and I
feel like we truly are showing a lot of
authentic things of our life especially
when it comes to vlogging but do you
sometimes find yourself kind of like
twisting your reality to kind of fit
with what you think people want to see
kind of huh I mean all my brain doesn't
stop thinking about YouTube ever
honestly to the fact that like I'll be
thinking in my mind of what I think I
should say not for what I should say but
what I should say for like my vlog it's
like I'm always in YouTube's mode it's
really weird and I'll find myself like
literally talking to myself
oh I hope no one saw that I was weird
that was super weird like if I go
somewhere without my camera sometimes
I'm like ah do I even do right I don't
know and I mean I don't I don't decide
to go do things just for the sake of
this will be good for a video very often
I mean like I guess sometimes I do but
more so I'm thankful that I get that
attitude otherwise I'd be lazy and I
wouldn't do anything got it yes yeah I
found myself a lot now doing things just
for videos because when it was vlogging
honestly you got like so boring and I
was like you know what I'm just gonna
post less but really make an effort
towards okay I have you know this new
camera or something I'm gonna go out on
my way to do something crazy so I don't
feel like I'm creating a false narrative
or something learn more it's just like
people have low attention spans yeah
they want goodness and like you know
just excitement and a five to ten minute
package I'm like I've kind of accepted
that and vlogging I've had a complicated
relationship with I really when I
realized I really don't like it that's
when kind of everything changed for me
and I learned to enjoy YouTube more
like I I need to stop just like taking
my camera everywhere and waiting for
something to hit me yeah but I think it
is different though
when vlogging is just your only thing I
think that can get dangerous but like
with you you're documenting so many
things that you're doing and I think
that's when it gets exciting so I think
that's a little nugget that people
should take away from your vlogs is like
you have so many things that you're
trying to go after in life and and it's
just like growing up yeah and you're
just documenting that which i think is
really exciting and fun yeah like I
think there's a lot of clips that like I
don't put up to like I've went on like a
first date like a month ago and like
long before it and I was like this is
probably just gonna be for me to keep
for myself maybe I'll use it one day and
I don't know sometimes I put up really
personal stuff yeah I don't know there's
always just super interesting things
happening yeah is it hard to pursue
relationships when you're a youtuber um
have you found no I I don't think so I
mean it's like kind of an not fair to
think that they can just go watch any of
my videos you know it's like oh he's
higher catalog yeah I just hope they
don't look alike I don't know you like
when I do use apps or anything or do you
just have me okay okay no no you could
just give him your first name I guess so
they can't Google you yeah it's just
like so bright it's just so part of my
life that it's like okay yeah they know
whatever I don't really think it's a big
deal
I just always kind of hope that they
don't think that it's cooler than it is
and like that they don't like me more
just because I mean it can seeing
someone have a lot of followers can make
them seem more attractive not even just
because who followers like it's
validation like the the these many
people think that person's cool too and
I just really hope like anyone that I
date doesn't like it doesn't matter
their judgement yeah yeah and I so I
just like get a little bit like
but why do you like mmm like Tyler
pretty cool let's start there okay do
you think when that time comes that you
might be in a serious relationship is
that something you're gonna keep off or
do you think it would be like impossible
as you share so much your life I really
don't know I've thought about this
because there was this time that there
was this guy and he was in a few of my
videos and then I put up a video just
completely like heartbroken over it I
saw that video yeah that video I mean
I'm over it now like it's totally fine
but I saw some comments with his name
and I hated to see that really hated to
see that so much and like the vlogs that
he's in are still up and like I took him
out of the thumbnails and like he's not
in any of the names or anything I just
never look at them but I don't really
like that they're there now mm-hmm
but in the moment it was it was so fun
and so real to have and it was a good
memory I just don't know I think that I
if I share so much about my life like I
have to share that too
I don't know I think I would but I think
it'll take a lot of time because
honestly to me introducing like a
boyfriend would be like introducing him
to my children like that's not even my
parents like me having a child and being
like yeah okay like because they're
gonna get attached to you hundreds of
thousand people giving their opinion
yeah thank you very like you they're
gonna get attached to you yeah and if we
break up they're gonna be asking me a
whole bunch what happened this that wait
so I don't want to deal with that you
always see that happen and that's
something that I went through because
traditionally I really did not date a
lot and I was always like work work work
work work work work work and luckily I
found someone that's exactly like work
work work work work but prior to that I
was like even if that became a part of
my life I am
I'm not going to show them in videos you
know the person you end up dating it's
also youtubers it's more fun to have
someone else in a video it is it always
is and what especially when you have
that kind of chemistry on that level
it's always so entertaining and it can
be so fun and so it's kind of one of
those things that you be conscious of
because I think we've seen a lot of
YouTube relationships happen and explode
you know you have the boyfriend first
girlfriend thing where jesse wellens
literally broadcasted his entire
relationship with jenna on their channel
and the channel was reliant on it and so
they were vlogging every day so it adds
that pressure I think that's when it
gets dangerous like when when your job
relies on your relationship I think
that's when it gets dicey I can say I
would never ever make like a channel a
joint chosen I'd never make like a
family channel or anything like that
it's always just like nope this is the
Monica show and featuring you sometimes
seems like this is the Monica show and
it's ever gonna become a Sally it's ever
gonna become about like a relationship
you know it's like other things I'm
doing in my life if you want that you
can go somewhere else what do you think
about family channels I mean I've never
really wanted kids so I just don't get
it
I don't want your delivery thing I'm
sorry I'm sorry you're a nice person but
like and I'm not it's like its own thing
it's just like it's just like someone
saying I don't like watching scary
movies so I don't watch scary movies
I've never even held a baby
never won't have kids alright the more I
grow up the more I'm like yeah family
seems cool right but I mean to each
their own it's like you do what you
freakin want to do with your life like
when I see a baby in a grocery store or
something I immediately just melt and
there's a I when I see I feel that like
when I when I'm like out to eat or
something or you know I'm with John and
a cute baby will be close he'll be like
oh my god here we go again a baby
sitting and so it was I was like baby oh
okay
like fueled all of my passions like
guitar or camera gear cuz baby sitters
they get paid yeah like when you are
trusted with another person's child and
you crush it you're gonna bring in the
dough you know that's a weird
association with I love kids but also
it's like what I did for a job like five
years of my life yeah I I break down
when I see babies in public I wish I
could feel that there's nothing wrong
with it you know I I think you know like
a family
I think that's an exciting idea but
broadcasting every second of that and
especially it's one thing when your job
relies on your significant other but
then you start bringing in little kit
like your children to wear the title
thumbnail you making money depends if
they like cry or not on like a situation
that can get sketchy and I think a
person who does it really well it's like
Casey and I stat so he'll make his
normal vlogs but he doesn't even show
his kids face in the videos anymore
because he I'm guessing once that little
human to be able to consent being on the
camera I love that when when they're
older and they can say yes or no you
know maybe that's when we'll see in the
video but I think there really is
certain lines that you have to play yeah
and I would get kind of sad if like he
just did so much family stuff cuz like
when you do get a little bit of it it's
really exciting like when he does sound
it's a really love story think of
Candace I'm like oh these days are
amazing I want more Casey Candace
content yeah Candace but like I
understand it him like telling the story
just the way he tells things is amazing
and yeah he's so good well this was fun
Maya thank you for being on the creative
exchange last question if you had a
megaphone and you could just like tell
the world something let's narrow it down
tell all the creative people whether
it's advice or maybe something that you
say or something you've learned
throughout your journey what would that
be I know that's a big question this is
your chance to broadcast it to everyone
I feel like this isn't that cool but I'm
just going with it because we talked
about it already and I've just been
really feeling it it's just never stop
learning and never never think that
you're the best find like a happy
balance of being happy with your work
and don't hate on yourself too much and
think everything you do sucks but so be
happy and confident but also realize it
always needs to be getting better
otherwise you're just stopping yourself
from growing and getting better heck
yeah yeah that's good that's good well
guys thank you so much for joining us in
this potty house if you're on YouTube
let me know if you liked it and hit that
subscribe button down below
and you can find the creative exchange
everywhere so if you're listening to
this on Apple podcast Google Play
stitcher I do have a youtube channel for
us you can see our faces IRL all of
those links are in the description below
sign monica on youtube so what are your
channels where where can people find you
youtube.com slash hair dynamic or
millennial life crisis that's what I'm
gonna go with cool so all of her links
are in the description below thank you
guys so much for tuning in and I think
what do you think of a sign off so I've
I've been getting suggestions and I
think I'm gonna go with like
be hustling do you like that is that
weird do you have any suggestions cuz
stay PG is so good for my main stuff and
yeah I'm fine I'm trying to find my
podcast thing any suggestions I don't
know
I like that just like stay creative stay
create stay free okay alright guys until
next Monday stay stay or keep creating
yeah yeah cuz suddenly I always say is
when in doubt keep creating because
there's been so many times in my life
that I've doubted but then I pushed
through yeah that answer was like on the
other side of that you know alright keep
creating keep creating alright until
next Monday guys keep creating ding
you